README.md, before:

# Home Assistant Omada Add-On

This add-on brings the Omada Controller directly into Home Assistant running on an 64 bit ARM or a x64 processor.

There exist two Add-On-Versions:

- Omada Stable
- Omada Beta

Omada Stable is created from Omada Beta (both in this repository), as soon as the beta add-on is updated to the latest
stable upstream version. Omada Beta should also be fairly stable, because the Add-On is mostly consistent with the already tested [docker-omada-cotroller](https://github.com/mbentley/docker-omada-controller), but might contain some Home-Assistant related inconsistencies or bugs.

## Installation

Installing third-party repositories:

1. Go to home assistant -> settings -> addons -> addon store
2. Click the hamburger menu (The three dots in the top right corner)
3. Click repositories
4. At the bottom there should be a space to paste the GitHub link: https://github.com/jkunczik/home-assistant-omada
5. You might have to refresh the page, but it should show up in the addon store under "Home Assistant Omada"

## Options

If you would like to use your own SSL certificate configured for Home Assistant with this Omada Add-On,
it can be enabled in the configuration options.
Set `Enable Home Assistant SSL` to `true`, and enter the full path for:

- `Certificate file`
- `Private key`

The default paths are compatible with the `Letsencrypt` Add-On.

## Contribution

This add-on is a fork of Matt Bentleys [docker-omada-cotroller](https://github.com/mbentley/docker-omada-controller) and jkunczik [home-assistant-omada](https://github.com/jkunczik/home-assistant-omada) would not have been possible without thier excellent work. Other than in the original docker omada controller, this add-on stores all persistent data in the /data directory, so that it is compatible with Home assistant. This Add-On would not be possible without the effort of other people. Pull requests for version
updates or new features are always more than welcome. Special thanks goes to DraTrav for pushing this Add-On forward!

<a href="https://github.com/jkunczik/home-assistant-omada/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=jkunczik/home-assistant-omada" />
</a>

Made with [contrib.rocks](https://contrib.rocks).

Commit message:

Updated Omada Beta to 5.14.32.2 - completely merged install.sh and entrypoint.sh - factored out Home Assistant specific changes to begin/end of the files for easier maintainance - only persist data and logs - wrote maintainance manual

README.md, after:

# Home Assistant Omada Add-On

This add-on brings the Omada Controller directly into Home Assistant running on an 64 bit ARM or a x64 processor.

There exist two Add-On-Versions:

- Omada Stable
- Omada Beta

Omada Stable is created from Omada Beta (both in this repository), as soon as the beta add-on is updated to the latest
stable upstream version. Omada Beta should also be fairly stable, because the Add-On is mostly consistent with the already tested [docker-omada-cotroller](https://github.com/mbentley/docker-omada-controller), but might contain some Home-Assistant related inconsistencies or bugs.

## Installation

Installing third-party repositories:

1. Go to home assistant -> settings -> addons -> addon store
2. Click the hamburger menu (The three dots in the top right corner)
3. Click repositories
4. At the bottom there should be a space to paste the GitHub link: https://github.com/jkunczik/home-assistant-omada
5. You might have to refresh the page, but it should show up in the addon store under "Home Assistant Omada"

## Options

If you would like to use your own SSL certificate configured for Home Assistant with this Omada Add-On,
it can be enabled in the configuration options.
Set `Enable Home Assistant SSL` to `true`, and enter the full path for:

- `Certificate file`
- `Private key`

The default paths are compatible with the `Letsencrypt` Add-On.

## Update to a new version

To update the controller to a new version, the changes of Matt Bentleys docker-omada-controller are manually merged into `Omada Beta`. The following steps have to be done:
- 1. Move the current configuration of `Omada Beta` to `Omda Stable`
- 2. make sure that there are no changes in the Dockerfile
- 3. If there are changes in install.sh, copy it over, while keeping the Home Assistant specific processing steps in the bottom of the file. Add `aarch64` to the supported mongod architectures (`case "${ARCH}" in amd64|arm64|aarch64|"")`)
- 4. If there are changes in entrypoint.sh, replace the old contents with the new, keeping the Home Assistant specific steps in the top of the file. Also, change the `echo` to proper `bashio::log` statements as described in the file.
- 5. Build the addon locally by commenting out `image: dratrav/home-assistant-omada-beta` in `config.yaml`
- 6. If everything worked as expected, ask DraTrav to build and push the image to the Docker repository and to merge it into main

## Contribution

This add-on is a fork of Matt Bentleys [docker-omada-cotroller](https://github.com/mbentley/docker-omada-controller) and jkunczik [home-assistant-omada](https://github.com/jkunczik/home-assistant-omada) would not have been possible without thier excellent work. Other than in the original docker omada controller, this add-on stores all persistent data in the /data directory, so that it is compatible with Home assistant. This Add-On would not be possible without the effort of other people. Pull requests for version
updates or new features are always more than welcome. Special thanks goes to DraTrav for pushing this Add-On forward!

<a href="https://github.com/jkunczik/home-assistant-omada/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=jkunczik/home-assistant-omada" />
</a>

Made with [contrib.rocks](https://contrib.rocks).
